Draft - [v0.37.0] Document Redwood Directives (#801)
redwoodjs/redwoodjs.com: docs/directives.md

# Directives

> Redwood Directives are a powerful feature that supercharge your GraphQL-backed services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redwood Directives are a powerful feature, supercharging your GraphQL-backed services. 
```

You can think of directives like "middleware" that lets you run reusable code during GraphQL execution to perform tasks like authentication and formatting.

> Redwood uses them to make protecting your api services from unauthorized access a snap. We call those Validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redwood uses them to make it a snap to protect your api services from unauthorized access. We call those **Validators**.
```

> And, your can use them to transform the output of your query result to modify string values, format dates, shield sensitive data, and more! We call those Transformers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use them to transform the output of your query result to modify string values, format dates, shield sensitive data, and more! We call those **Transformers**.
```

> You'll recognize a directive by its preceded by the `@` character, e.g. `@myDirective`, and by being declared alongside a field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll recognize a directive being by the preceding `@` character, e.g. `@myDirective`, and by being declared alongside a field:
```

```ts
type Bar {
  name: String! @myDirective
}
```

or a Query or Mutation:

```ts
type Query {
  bars: [Bar!]! @myDirective
}

type Mutation {
  createBar(input: CreateBarInput!): Bar! @myDirective
}
```

You can also define arguments that can be extracted and used when evaluating the directive:

```ts
type Bar {
  field: String! @myDirective(roles: ["ADMIN"])
}
```

or a Query or Mutation:

```ts
type Query {
  bars: [Bar!]! @myDirective
}
```

> Can I use directives on relations? Yes, you can.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can I use directives on relations? Yes, you can!
```

```ts
type Baz {
  name: String! 
}

type Bar {
  name: String!
  bazzes: [Baz]! @myDirective
}
```

> There are many ways to write directives using GraphQL tools and libraries, and believe us, it can get complicated fast. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways to write directives using GraphQL tools and libraries. Believe us, it can get complicated fast.
```

But, don't fret: Redwood provides an easy and ergonomic way to generate and write your own directives so you can focus on the implementation logic and not the GraphQL plumbing. 

## What is a Redwood Directive?

> Redwood directives are purposeful; they come in two flavors: **Validators** and **Transformers**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redwood directives are purposeful. They come in two flavors: **Validators** and **Transformers**.
```

Whatever flavor of directive you want, all Redwood directives must have the following properties:

> - Be in the `./api/src/directives/{directiveName}` folder where `directiveName` is yur directive
> - Must have a file name with `{directiveName}.{js,ts}` extension e.g. `maskedEmail.ts`
> - Must export a `schema` and implement either their `validate` or `transform` function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be in the `./api/src/directives/{directiveName}` folder where `directiveName` is the directive directory
- Must have a file name with `{directiveName}.{js,ts}` extension, e.g. `maskedEmail.ts`
- Must export a `schema` and implement either a `validate` or `transform` function
```
